CitiBike - A Review of Ridership

CitiBike is "the nation's largest bike share program", which serves more than "1,300 stations
across Manhattan, Brooklyn, Queens, the Bronx and Jersey City" (citibikenyc.com).

The task at hand was to utilize the data from the use of the CitiBike program and uncover 
important ways in which the program may be improved. In this Citibike Ridership story I delved into
the most popular stations to develop a strategy from which we may continue to provide the best 
service possible. 

In the first visualization we obseved geographic representations of where the most frequented 
stations are for both the start of a trip and the end of a trip on a daily basis. This information 
was essential to developing the following analysis. Our goal is to not only determine who uses 
the citibike program, but how we can keep it running with minimal incidents to allow our more than 
20,000 riders enjoy this eco-friendly and efficient mode of transport. 

The following visualization included the names of the top 10 most frequented stations used by
riders to start their trips as well as the least used locations; these last locations, seeing the 
lowest amount of traffic, may be reviewed to determine their obsolecence so that we could make 
better use of our supply. Looking at the top stations, we determined these may be used as key 
locations used to make upgrades and pick up locations so we may maintain and repair our fleet. 

CitiBike is already an important mode of transportation in the area and must not be disrupted as
it already constitutes an important tool on which thousands of people rely on daily. Having the
least amount of negative influence in mind, our next visual representation show us the key times 
in which we see the maximum amount of ridership. These are key times during which we must ensure 
the majority of our fleet is active and ready for use. 

Lastly we obseved that the majority of our riders have subscirbed to the service on a monthly basis
and we can use this information to better market locally rather than encourage tourists and casual
riders. It is my recommendation that we create promotional materials that would encourage our members
to report broken down bikes and stations, as well as any parts needing repair. The majority of 
our ridership happens at the start end end of the business day, which includes our daily commuters and 
those riders who will rather use our service to enjoy of after-work activities than on ride-share
programs as are Uber, Lyft or public transport. I propose one of our next analysis and visualizations
to refer to the comparison of public transport vs. ride-share programs with an emphasis on CitiBike ridership. 
